welcome back to our video series on
plant diversity and evolution in this
video we're going to look at the
reproduction seed plants gymnosperms and
angiosperms we're going to use the pine
tree as our poster child for all tuna
sperms and basically any flowering plant
to represent the angiosperms remembering
that in the gymnosperms or in the pines
at least the reproductive structures are
cones and in the angiosperms they're
flowers now I may turn this into a
two-part video depending how long it
takes me to get through the gymnosperms
but let's start there so the life cycle
of the gymnosperms
look at the pine trees we have the
reproductive structures the cones but
there's two types of cones there are the
female cones or the seed cones sometimes
called the woody cones that what you
think about when you kind of visualize a
pinecone but we also have male cones or
pollen cones they're smaller and spongy
or in texture and obviously they're the
ones that can relate the pollen let's
look at the male side of things first
here's a pollen cone remembering that
this is the sporophyte generation that
we're seeing the diploid generation and
sporophytes make spores so let's zoom in
on part of this pollen cone this
sporophyte is going to make spores and
since the sporophyte is diploid and the
spores haploid we need meiosis now
specifically since we're going to make
the microspore remembering that seed
plants are heterosporous we have a micro
score and a mega spore and so in the
pollen cone through meiosis we make the
Micra spore now we know that spores
become gametophyte and the Micra spores
specifically becomes the male
gametophyte and if we remember in seed
plants the milk and meet a fight is
pause video write down what I'm about to
say pollen that's right the male
gametophyte and seed plants is pollen
this represents the gametophyte
generation at least on the male side
let's move over to the female side and
look at the woody cones or the seed
cones and if we zoom in on a section of
this one of these scales and
we zoom into one of those we see a novel
and again this is the sporophyte
generation so inside the ovule is a cell
called the megaspore mother cell now if
it's a mother cell it means it's going
to give birth to some other cell and
it's the cell that's going to make the
megaspore so it's diploid it's the
sporophyte generation we're going to
need me osis to make it haploid so
inside the ovule megaspore mother cell
undergoes meiosis making four haploid
cells now only one of these is going to
become the megaspore these are the three
kind of go away they're not important
now
this megaspore is the haploid spore and
we know the spores become gametophyte so
it's going to grow by mitosis to become
the female gametophyte so this and I've
blown it up a little bigger here inside
this female gametophyte or a number of
cells one of which is the egg because it
give me the fight's make gametes and the
other is the endosperm mother cell which
is going to give rise to the endosperm
now we're going to talk more about the
endosperm but it is the nutritive tissue
that's going to sustain the embryo after
fertilization but we don't have it yet
we just have the cell that's going to
give rise to it so the pollen co-maid
pollen and in the seed code on the seed
cone we've set up everything to make a
seed
we just need pollination to occur so
here we have our female give me a fight
mate holding our egg in our innocent
mother cell and we just need pollen in
the pine-trees pollen it is brought by
the wind it's wind born it's not brought
by a pollinator like we might see in
flowers no no insects involved here so
the wind blows pollen over here and when
the pollen reaches the scale of the cone
it discharges the sperm the sperms going
to fuse with the egg and fertilize the
egg and make the zygote the endosperm
mother cell divides producing the
endosperm
now the zygote is diploid it's the
result of fertilization the endosperm
the nutritive tissue around the zygote
is happy
now the zygote will become the embryo
and surrounded by the endosperm the
nutritive tissue and we are formed the
seed now the seed if we go back to the
seed cone the seeds are found here when
the Coons mature the scales peel back
like they see in this picture and the
seeds can fall out of the cone land on
the ground and grow into a new pine tree
and that's going to do it for the life
cycle the gymnosperm now I'm going to
make the angiosperm life cycle and
reproduction its own video it takes a
little longer so come back for that one
if you have any questions about this one
leave me comments below the video and I
hope you learn something